Israel's attacks on Gaza have destroyed
more than half of the strip's Farmland
fields and agricultural facilities have
been devastated by air strikes and
bulldozers before the war Gaza had 230
square kilm of vegetation in total and
because of the extensive damage by
Israeli forces only 137 Square kilm
remain and you can see with these
satellite images most of the trees are
gone along with 60% of Gaza Farmland 96%
of gaza's population is facing food
shortages nearly half a million
Palestinians are now at risk of
starvation the Palestinian journalist
ibraim Al KH spoke to Farmers in
Northern Gaza who are fighting to keep
their crops alive as essential food
sources are being wiped
out after a long shortage of food
farmers are trying to rebuild their
nurseries that have been damaged by air
strikes to try and grow essential
vegetables to feed the local community
food is food situation is being very
dire here in Northern gaz's families
can't find income to buy such food this
initiative is driven by local farmers to
try and provide the basic uh seedlings
like BOS Oren and and peppers which are
important for the families in this harsh
time of starvation
I own the shik radwan plant nursery
company it was damaged by the Israeli
attacks in 2023 following October the
7th the Zionist occupation spared
neither trees nor stones and targeted
all sorts of life support in the Gaza
Strip none of the equipment was spared
now the Gaza Strip is virtually devoid
of seeds agricultural materials and
fertilizers when we returned having been
displaced we came back home and restored
the plant nursery we removed all damaged
plants these are the heaps of bags in
which the seedings were planted we put
them in one place civilians who live in
nearby are cheering for this project as
they are trying to look for some relief
providing such vegetables in the time of
starvation as long as there is life we
will plant again and again we will plant
seedlings because Natural Life in Gaza
is completely gone one can't see any
grein I will plant these seedlings in a
plot of land that I have but the Israeli
military has scoured it it was full of
all sorts of trees you name it and it
was all fruit bearing but they scoured
it and turned it into a Barren land in
January I started planting the land and
new with all that was destroyed you will
come see and you will find it all green
God willing we will not be rooted out of
this
land we came to the nursery to buy seeds
in order to provide food for my
household since there is no food in
Northern Gaza and nothing is allowed to
enter our area if we plant anything
the Israelis will scour it and fight us
there are no vegetables at all in the
market even if vegetables arrive a kilo
of eggplant would cost 100
shekels their initiatives are important
as Israel's war on Gaza continues the
lands has that have been used for for
Farming that have been completely
destroyed as well as the equipment
making it hard for these Farmers to grow
bigger nurseries or and to provide
better vegetables of flow for the
civilians here in Northern
Gaza make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer